README.md, before:

# The Internet Vagabond dot com

My name is Bill Niblock. I'm a computer scientist by education, a technologist
by trade, a gamer by hobby, and a philosopher by accident. I currently live in
Buffalo, New York.

This site is a small slice of internet real-estate that I use for occasional
writing. Nothing I say is visionary or profound. I will tend to focus on
technology, gaming, and philosophy. All opinions my own.

### To-Do
* Look into webmentions

### Latest Technology Update :: 2020-06/07
* Improved the handling of code blocks, both in-line and stand-alone.
* Added styles for a "Sources" table. See rule `h3 + table` in the styles.
* Updated 404 page to use proper styles.
* Added a license file, and a copyright notice on each article. Not that it
    matters: continue to do what the fuck you want.

## Licenses / Copyrights/ Bureaucracy

All code and content licensed under the [WTFPL](http://www.wtfpl.net/about/)

You can contact me via email at [bill at theinternetvagabond dot
com](mailto:bill@theinternetvagabond.com)

Commit message:

GoatCounter: Self-host the JS

README.md, after:

# The Internet Vagabond dot com

My name is Bill Niblock. I'm a computer scientist by education, a technologist
by trade, a gamer by hobby, and a philosopher by accident. I currently live in
Buffalo, New York.

This site is a small slice of internet real-estate that I use for occasional
writing. Nothing I say is visionary or profound. I will tend to focus on
technology, gaming, and philosophy. All opinions my own.

### To-Do
* Look into webmentions

### Latest Technology Update :: 2020-06/07
* Improved the handling of code blocks, both in-line and stand-alone.
* Added styles for a "Sources" table. See rule `h3 + table` in the styles.
* Updated 404 page to use proper styles.
* Added a license file, and a copyright notice on each article. Not that it
    matters: continue to do what the fuck you want.

## Licenses / Copyrights/ Bureaucracy

All code and content licensed under the [WTFPL](http://www.wtfpl.net/about/),
unless otherwise noted in the individual files:
* GoatCounter Javascript (/src/scripts/goatcounter.js) licensed under the
    [ISC](https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC)

You can contact me via email at [bill at theinternetvagabond dot
com](mailto:bill@theinternetvagabond.com)
