---
     tabtitle: "Character Story: Gabriella's Fall"
     title: "Character Story: Gabriella's Fall"
     topics: [gaming, writing]
     pub: "2020-06-18"
     short_desc: "A story I wrote about the consequences of the actions of
     Gabriella, a paladin in D&D5e"
---

# Character Story: Gabriella's Fall

_Gabriella de la Rodriguez Alejandra Santa Lucia, you are hereby relieved of
duty and dishonorably discharged from the Barakhan Army._

The morning was cold. It’s always cold. Something Gabriella knew but rarely
experienced. She had not slept well since the hearing, and had taken to
wandering the city.

_You are charged with gross negligence, gross incompetence, and failure to
repair. The results of your actions have cost the lives of 8 Barakhan soldiers
under your command._

With a start she awoke to fresh dew. She had apparently dozed off. How swiftly
her discipline had faltered. Yet another indication of her failure.

_Gareth Brand. Ryal Cross. Willem Frost. Davis Mason._

She stopped paying for rooms, since she spent so little time in them. The
streets weren’t that bad at night, despite what some may think. In the gardens
or along the parkways, there were always trees to rest beneath. The city, the
one she had dreamt about as a child; the one she has sworn to defend; the one
she now walked as a ghost. The city somehow still welcomed her, still provided
for her. Who was she to deserve it?

_Francis Potter. Cordon Stone. Richard Stone. Samuel White._

She did not.

_All possessions of the army are now to be reclaimed. You will doff your armor,
remove your shield, and place them on the floor beside you. All possessions
which belong to you have been gathered, and are now presented to you._

A sack, with several sets of clothing. A few books. Her Uncle’s sword. These
items were handed to her by a court clerk. She took them, and in stunned
silence, stared at the floor in front of her.

_This dismissal is now complete. As of this moment, you are forbidden interaction
with any members of House Barakhan, until you return to Mnemar and make amends
for your actions._

She couldn’t move. She could barely breathe. The Field Marshall closed the book,
and placed it on the table before him. The Imperial Magister, with the slightest
smirk on his face, was the first to leave. After what seemed like ages, one of
Field Marshall Barakhan Randall’s captains escorted Gabriella to the exit.

This was the fourth time she walked into the temple. This time she was
determined to at least try. She spotted a secluded space, and knelt at a pew.
After a few moments, she rose. This is pointless, she thought, and began to walk
out. She paused, then slowly returned to the pew. Again she knelt, and as she
had done so many times since Rattimas, whispered quietly the names of her men.
_Gareth, Ryal, Willem, Davis, Francis._ She stopped, took a deep breath, and
continued. _Cordon, Richard, Samuel._ Silence. She stared at her hands, clasped
before her.

“I’ve never done this before. I’ve seen my men pray to gods. I’ve seen the
citizens and refugees with their shrines and books. I’ve never been convinced it
was worth my time. I guess, now that I have nothing left, it doesn’t seem such a
waste.”

She smiled, and laughed quietly. “This is pointless.”

She rose, and as she did, a voice from behind her spoke.

“Where I walk, so must you.”

Gabriella turned, and before her saw a woman dressed in stately attire. Her
white gown was precisely fitted, and simply decorated with pearls and rubies.
Her hair was fashioned up into a wide fin around a golden comb. In her hands she
held a scepter, of golden shaft and topped with a red orb, which itself was
surrounded by a golden crown.

“Beg your pardon, ma’am. I am not so desperate as to find employ as a servant.”
Gabriella replied.

“You have always been my servant, Gabriella. Ever since you first dreamt of my
city.” The woman sat, and gestured for Gabriella to do the same. As she did, the
woman continued.

“My city is under threat, and you have come very far to protect it. The army
provided you with training, which will serve you well. While your discharge from
the army is unfortunate, it is but a slight bump in the road.”

The woman waited, then. Gabriella returned her gaze, confused. This woman was
not present at her dismissal, and news of it had not spread outside the
barracks. If this woman was Barakhan, she was forbidden to speak with Gabriella.

“I am not worthy of protecting this city. My failures are paramount, and my
actions found wanting. I have failed my family, my army, my homeland, and
myself.” Gabriella replied.

“The events which led to your dismissal are unfortunate, but the judgement is
fair.”

Gabriella winced. If the woman noticed, she paid no heed.

“You will make amends yet. Now is no time for this pathetic exercise in
self-pity. For nearly two weeks you have lived as a vagrant and it has not done
you well. Cities have inns for a reason. Get a room at The Red River Way. Tork,
the keeper, is a good man and will charge you a fair price. You need a bath, and
to properly dress yourself. I cannot give you the armor you are familiar with,
but this cloak will keep you warm.”

The woman rose then, and looked down upon Gabriella.

“You must walk my city. Every road and alley way. Upon its stones and bricks you
will discover your strength. You have asked for help, and this is how you shall
earn it. You once swore to protect this city, and by proxy have sworn fealty to
me. In return, once you have proven your fealty, I will extend my blessing to
you.”

Gabriella stood, as the woman thrust the cloak into her arms.

“I will find you once more, here, when you are done.”

“Who are you to command me? I have no commander. I have no lord. I don’t want
your charity and I don’t want your chores!” Gabriella responded, a fury rising
in her voice.

“I am the patron of Silent Fall. I am Erathis. You asked for my help. I have
given it.”

### 100 Days
I'm writing this post as part of [#100DaysToOffload](https://100daystooffload),
an initiative to inspire writing habits. Perhaps you could do the same.
